# Experiment E5

Experiment E5 is used to verify the effect of the liveness mask on filtering false positive. By this experiment, we can verify that DejaVuzz can filter the false pisitive identified by SpecDoctor.

## Setup

1. set up the experiment environment following the README in root directory

2. export `DEJAVUZZ` shell variant to directory of toolchian

```sh
    export DEJAVUZZ=/path/to/toolchain
```

You can construct your toolchain by the steps in root directory's README.

3. download dataset to exp5-liveness/liveness_dataset path.

```
TODO:
```

4. create soft link to `exp3-leak/specdoctor` as DejaVuzz with liveness mask.

```
ln -s ../exp3-leak/specdoctor BOOM
```

the `exp5-liveness/BOOM_without_mask` is the DejaVuzz without liveness mask.

5. compile the DejaVuzz framework before executing.

```
make -C BOOM vcs
make -C BOOM_without_mask vcs
```

## Directory Hierarchy of Dataset

The final directory hierarchy of the `liveness_dataset` is as follows:

```
.
├── 0
├── 1
├── 2
├── ...
└── 74
```

We run 5 groups of SpecDoctor, and each group consists of 20000 rounds. Then we collect all the testcases SpecDoctor identifies leaking secret from these 5 groups to construct this `liveness_dataset`. The number of testcases in `liveness_dataset` is 75, it is the same as the number written in out paper.

## Execute experiment

1. execute `python liveness_replace_execute.py` to change the `FILE_PATH` in liveness_dataset's `swap_mem.cfg`.

2. execute `python liveness_execute.py` to execute the testcases in `liveness_dataset`. The executing result will be recored in `lieness_result_xx-xx-xx-xx-xx-xx` folder, the `xx-xx-xx-xx-xx-xx` is the start execution time of `python liveness_execute.py`. For example, the `BOOM/0.taint.live` records the compoments which DejaVuzz with liveness mask thought encoded secret when executing the `liveness_dataset/0`, while the `BOOM_without_mask/0.taint.live` is the result of the DejaVuzz without liveness mask.

liveness_result_2025-02-14-00-01-04
├── BOOM
│   ├── 0.taint.live
│   ├── ...
│   └── 74.taint.live
└── BOOM_without_mask
    ├── 0.taint.live
    ├── ...
    └── 74.taint.live

3. compare the result between BOOM and BOOM_without_mask by executing `diff BOOM BOOM_Without_mask`. We can find BOOM_without_mask finds more components encoded by secret than BOOM, which means DejaVuzz with liveness mask can filter more false positive than DejaVuzz without liveness mask.

```
diff --color BOOM/0.taint.live BOOM_without_mask/0.taint.live
0a1
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.core.FpPipeline.fregfile._35_.unnamed$$_0:   1
1a3,4
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.dcache.mshrs._492_.unnamed$$_0:  8
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.dcache.mshrs.respq._316_.unnamed$$_0: 1
diff --color BOOM/10.taint.live BOOM_without_mask/10.taint.live
0a1
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.core.iregfile._085_.unnamed$$_0:   1
1a3,4
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.dcache.mshrs._492_.unnamed$$_0:  8
> Testbench.testHarness.ldut.tile_prci_domain.tile_reset_domain_boom_tile.dcache.mshrs.respq._316_.unnamed$$_0: 1
...
```

Further, DejaVuzz with liveness mask thinks only the dcache encoded by secret because testcases access secret during transient windows. So all these testcases generated by SpecDoctor are false positive. It means our DejaVuzz with liveness mask can filter the false positive from SpecDoctor. 


